file-path:: ../assets/SSRN-id3623492_1655990209536_0.pdf

- file-path:: ../assets/SSRN-id3623492_1655990209536_0.pdf
  file:: [SSRN-id3623492_1655990209536_0.pdf](../assets/SSRN-id3623492_1655990209536_0.pdf)
  title:: hls__SSRN-id3623492_1655990209536_0
- We study the disproportionate impact of the lockdown as a result of the COVID-19 outbreak on female andmale academics’ research productivity in social science. The lockdown has caused substantial disruptionsto academic activities, requiring people to work from home. How this disruption affects productivity andthe related gender equity is an important operations and societal question. We collect data from the largestopen-access  preprint  repository  for  social  science  on  41,858  research  preprints  in  18  disciplines  producedby 76,832 authors across 25 countries over a span of two years. We use a difference-in-differences approachleveraging the exogenous pandemic shock. Our results indicate that, in the 10 weeks after the lockdown in theUnited States, although total research productivity increased by 35 percent, female academics’ productivitydropped by 13.2 percent relative to that of male academics. We also show that this intensified productivitygap is more pronounced for assistant professors and for academics in top-ranked universities and is found insix other countries. Our work points out the fairness issue in productivity caused by the lockdown, a findingthat universities will find helpful when evaluating faculty productivity. It also helps organizations realize thepotential unintended consequences that can arise from telecommuting.
  ls-type:: annotation
  hl-page:: 1
  id:: 62b467cb-3af9-43cc-bd95-45ed6f96798b